---
title: A comprehensive overview of design trends for 2024
description: This article collects the key design trends for 2024 and divides them into 8 themes that will be in focus this year.
category: en
source:
    name: Creative Practice
    url: https://cases.media/creativepractice
author:
    name: Creative Practice
    url: https://cases.media/creativepractice
image:
    path: https://i.imgur.com/5YkTXCt.jpg
    width: 800
    height: 400
---


In this article, we have collected the key design trends for 2024 and divided them into 8 themes that will be in focus this year.

As a result, we received the following directions: "Nostalgia", "Multidimensionality instead of minimalism", "Printing evolution",
"Kinetic Typography", "Human at the Center of Everything", "Social Design" and "Authenticity instead of Artificial Intelligence".

We will tell you more about each of them later!

### Nostalgia

This year, in all trend reports, there is a yearning for the past and the return of the "good old days". In particular, 
it is related with the desire to hide from the pessimistic reality and find refuge in familiar things. In other words, 
you can say that nostalgia will become one of the key focuses in creativity and design in 2024.

This trend includes, in particular, modern interpretations of vintage styles, as well as hyperrealistic visualizations
past periods. For example, according to Depositphotos, one of the directions of the trend will be #oldmoney aesthetics 
("old money"), which provides the audience with reliable support in old, time-tested ideas.

To implement this trend, the team advises to use natural dull colors and muted logos, integrate into communication fonts 
in the style of the 20th century, as well as focusing on objects with traces of time and traditional ornaments.

{% include imgur src="RLZhWTq.png" alt="Photo courtesy of olivia mew(CC No Derivatives)" %}

Creative Boom is sure that the nostalgia trend will not miss the "doll" spirit of America of the 1950s. Cadillacs, pink 
Barbie, the world of Wes Anderson, Palm Springs and cotton candy color palettes, all these visual themes awaken in the 
audience positive emotions and associations, and therefore will be relevant this year.

{% include imgur src="SfRgiSm.png" alt="Photo courtesy of olivia mew(CC No Derivatives)" %}

{% include imgur src="N4FnZWS.png" alt="Photo courtesy of olivia mew(CC No Derivatives)" %}

In typography, we are also expecting the return of retro fonts, but already in a reinterpreted modern interpretation.

{% include imgur src="y3X8jih.png" alt="Photo courtesy of olivia mew(CC No Derivatives)" %}

In addition, in 2024, a wave of growing interest in street culture, in particular, the period of the 70s and 90s, is predicted.

#### How can this be used in practice?

For example, by integrating elements of urban aesthetics in the campaign, such as graffiti, solid fill and highlighted in bold
outline of cartoon characters, as well as using post-processing effects that simulate VHS noise or grainy printing,
typical of the design of the late 70s.

{% include imgur src="Fe5HP4U.gif" alt="Photo courtesy of olivia mew(CC No Derivatives)" %}

But in web design, the nostalgia trend found an interesting embodiment in the skeuomorphism effect.

Webflow predicts that the trend of rendering elements that mimic their real-world counterparts will return to web design
in 2024. After all, users are increasingly attracted to designs that remind of the pre-digital world.

Therefore, there will be more disks, switches and paper notes in the design of websites.

{% include imgur src="neIekXP.jpg" alt="Photo courtesy of olivia mew(CC No Derivatives)" %}

### Multidimensionality instead of minimalism

With the advent of technology like Meta Quest 3 and Apple's Vision Pro, the creative industries will continue to grow
multidimensionality and interesting combinations of different techniques.

For example, a number of experts predict a wave of popularity of 3D fonts, so in 2024 it will not be superfluous for designers 
to master 3D tools. And Adobe in its reports emphasizes the combination of various formats of 2D and 3D content with AR 
and VR technologies.

{% include imgur src="CBCWdDO.gif" alt="Photo courtesy of olivia mew(CC No Derivatives)" %}

As for graphic design, these trends can be realized with the help of layering, creating collages, as well as
experimenting with different styles and concepts.

The trend will find its embodiment in web design. According to Webflow, in 2024, minimalism will fade into the background. 
At the same time, websites will have more complex compositions — with animations, textures, patterns and saturated colors.

### Printing evolution

Most experts predict that text communication will become the queen of design in 2024. Consumers trust clear
and transparent word meanings, which inspires brands to experiment with this format. And this means that this year the typography and
typefaces will increasingly become a key focus in design.

{% include imgur src="o59dBeP.png" alt="Photo courtesy of olivia mew(CC No Derivatives)" %}

Depositphotos advises you to pay attention to the following possible embodiments of the trend:

- use of large vintage letters and handwritten fonts to visually highlight key messages;
- a combination of contrasting fonts (for example, legible grotesques with pixel ones) with the aim of intriguing the audience;
- shocking with the help of animated fonts (so as not to go unnoticed).

In web design in 2024, we will obviously see more websites where fonts will be the dominant visual element
the inscription is also non-standard. For example, the trend of combining fonts of different styles is already actively spreading,
and experiments with text and mixed media.

{% include imgur src="tg6HB3t.png" alt="Photo courtesy of olivia mew(CC No Derivatives)" %}

Here a logical question arises: which fonts should be preferred in 2024?

If there is one major typographic trend of the last ten years, it is the rejection of serifs. As Mark Richardson explains,
designer and founder of Canadian design studio Superfried:

“In the digital world we see on the small screen, sans-serif fonts are preferred for wordmarks. And in order not to get 
lost against the background of such font inscriptions, experts advise experimenting with headsets and making their more 
whimsical, contrasting and dynamic."

Before experimenting with typography, it is useful to understand the structure of fonts and their properties. For this
our course "Typography in graphic design" will come in handy, within which you can learn to work effectively with text,
harmoniously select fonts and compose text compositions.

### Kinetic typography

Dynamism smoothly leads us to the next trend, which is found in almost every forecast for 2024 — kinetic typography In order 
to have an increasingly unique and authentic look, brands will increasingly use dynamics in their designs and animation. 
In particular, this also applies to font inscriptions, which will become more mobile, or one might even say "more energetic".

We advise you to pay attention to development in the direction of moush design and practice various tools for 3D and animation.
For example, you can start with our "Working with Cinema 4D" and "Working with AfterEffects" courses.

{% include imgur src="F5faPwI.gif" alt="Photo courtesy of olivia mew(CC No Derivatives)" %}

More dynamics and animation will also appear in the font compositions of websites. This will help make the user experience
more interactive, and the website pages are not only informative, but also attractive.

For example, Webflow predicts that its second breath will receive the parallax effect, a technique in which background content moves from
at a different speed than the front one, creating the illusion of depth and a more dynamic visual experience. It is expected that in combination
with animation, video or gif images, it is able to provide a deeper level of interaction with the website.

{% include imgur src="5aRd58Q.png" alt="Photo courtesy of olivia mew(CC No Derivatives)" %}

### Man is at the center of everything

The next stop on our trend journey is human-centered design. But in this context it is more about meanings,
rather than functionality.

Nowadays, many people are in constant struggle with stress, negativity and anxiety. And taking care of mental health
comes to the fore. This means that in visual communications, the audience seeks comfort and peace.

{% include imgur src="KwC7Ejs.png" alt="Photo courtesy of olivia mew(CC No Derivatives)" %}

Calming and smooth visuals, images that have a positive effect on mental health, soft rounded fonts,
warm natural shades, natural materials - all these are tools with which this trend can be put into practice.

{% include imgur src="57LWHnk.png" alt="Photo courtesy of olivia mew(CC No Derivatives)" %}

Given this trend, experts advise web designers to turn to the implementation of micro-interactions — small interactive
website elements that respond to user actions, such as hovering over a button or clicking an icon. These interactions
often minor, but can add significant engagement and intuitiveness to a user experience.

### Social design

Design is always an embodiment of what is happening in society and culture. Therefore, some social trends will have a direct
impact on our industry this year.

One of them is personality over gender. Values will replace gender as a target audience characteristic for brands, and artists
will create works focusing on the uniqueness of their models, psychological portraits and equality.

To implement the trend in practice, Depositphotos recommends using photos of people of different sexes in the same poses and clothes,
who show the same emotions on camera, and to prefer gender-neutral colors.

Environmental responsibility, the significance of which is becoming higher every year, does not bypass this trend.

{% include imgur src="CnChUwI.png" alt="Photo courtesy of olivia mew(CC No Derivatives)" %}

What exactly does it mean for graphic design?

First of all, experiments with packaging and materials used for it. Many brands prefer edibles packaging or even completely 
abandon it in their products. But it all boils down to what the designers will have to do use more creativity to find ways 
to combine sustainability and visible branding.

{% include imgur src="bk09ge4.jpg" alt="Photo courtesy of olivia mew(CC No Derivatives)" %}

### Authenticity instead of artificial intelligence

We deliberately left artificial intelligence at the end of this article, because nowadays few people will be surprised by 
the advice to integrate tools generative art into the work process.

However, not everything is so simple here. On the one hand, artificial intelligence will indeed continue to change the 
industry in the coming year. In particular, approaches to the design process. It will come in handy to optimize routine 
tasks, to create a more personalized one user experience or choosing harmonious color palettes.

By the way, if you have had the opportunity to work with neural networks, join the students of our course "Working with 
Firely", which will help to figure out how to use the artificial effect as effectively as possible to speed up work.

But to the question of whether generative art will find a warm response in the audience in 2024, the answer is rather negative.

More and more people are worried about the consequences of rapid technological progress and refuse to accept machine creations.
On the contrary, people will seek to see visually authentic, in some sense even naive works that look as if they were 
definitely created by man.

### Summary

After all, no trend is a clear rule that should limit your efforts and put them within certain limits. It is rather
another way to better understand your audience and assess global industry trends.

Use trends as an additional source of inspiration and a foundation from which to develop creativity and creativity
experiment, but always stick to your creative vision and identity.